(light music)
Nothing has intrigued humankind more than
whether or not we've been visited by extraterrestrials.
In recent times, a flood of accounts have come out
ranging from sightings and contacts to abductions
but few examples are more fascinating
than the unearthing of evidence from our ancient past.
Philip Coppens, author of The Ancient Alien Question,
says that science needs to step up
and begin serious investigation to take this debate
to the forefront.
Hi, Philip. Thank you so much for joining us.
I know you're in the middle of a move
and you're a busy guy and part of that has to be
because of the Ancient Aliens series, which has
really brought a lot of people who were considered
to be more alternative science and alternative history
into the foreground of mainstream because it's
been such an incredibly popular television series.
Can you talk a little bit about what your experience of that
has been and the response by the public at large
to the "Ancient Aliens" series?
Absolutely, I mean overall the Ancient Aliens series
I think has been a phenomenal success.
You know, (audio cuts out) was that in 2009,
the producer of a special called,
Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull,
wanted to really go further
and he contacted Giorgio Tsoukalos.
And the question he posed to Giorgio was,
what's happening with Erich von Daniken, is he still alive?
And Giorgio basically said like, um, you're kidding right?
And Kevin Burns the owner of Prometheus
basically said, ah, no, why?
He said, well Eric is something kind of like
my spiritual father and so what happened was that a two hour
special was produced, the two hours special became
the most watched and highly rated show
on the History Channel in 2009.
And since season one, two, and three has been
just completed and there's now work going on on season four.
So really what it is showing is that
there's a tremendous appetite.
And I think one of the things to do with the success
of the show is the fact that it had stopped
going this tit for tat, that really people are
allowed to really say what they want to say.
And that it is up to the reader, I'm sorry the viewer
to decide what they really want to take away from the show.
So many other shows are like point A
and then point B will attack point A.
So that is something which I think is different
and I think it is also contributing factor
to the success of Ancient Aliens.
And I also think it is one of these big questions
and it is very rare that big questions
get asked on television.
At the time it's what Kim Kardashian's
hairdo will looked like the following morning
or what is happening in the White House.
But things to do with why are we here, were we alone,
that's really rarely the subject of any show
at all on television.
And I think this is also contributing factor to the success
of the series because people really get answers
or at least choose the information whereby they can go out
and find the answers for themselves.
I think you're, that was going to be my
followup question, I think you're right on,
I really am fatigued
with Discovery Channel, History Channel,
and all of these channels that are,
their mission statement anyway is to help us discovery,
you know, greater depth of science, archeology,
humanity and so forth, yeah this tit for tat thing
pulls the whole program down because all you have to do
is get the head of the say skeptics society to come on
and on a broad array of subjects say, no I don't think so,
there's no proof, nope where's the proof, where's the proof.
And again, it is difficult finding proof, as your book,
which this is really about finding proofs
for the alien question, right, the ancient alien,
the question of ancient alien existence on the planet.
And there comes a point where you have to start looking
at the startling amount of general evidence
in the collective psyche and which is obviously
made it's way to the surface of our consciousness
or this would not be such a popular show.
And it really makes obsolete the tit for tat you're
talking about and I enjoy watching it for the same reasons.
So I'm thrilled that the producer has chosen
to do it this way.
Which is good for all of you.
Well absolutely and I think, you know, this is one
of the primary things to do with
really what the times we're living in.
So many of these shows have failed in the past
because of this tit for tat approach.
And really the fact that, you know, we are in a position
whereby we can just explore these things.
Some of the skeptics have said,
like well where is the room for us?
The scientists have said, well where is the room for us
in these shows?
And the answer really is that they, you know,
when Zahi Hawass or the other experts
on whatever subject are given
Prime Time Television, they don't invite the Ralph Ellises
or the Lorraine Evans who have different views
around Gauls on ancient Egypt
to give a counterpoint argument either.
So why should they be kind of like on our show so to speak.
So it is a new form of television and I mean yes,
to bring it to the book,
The Ancient Alien Question is specifically there for people
who really wanna delve into this material a bit further.
Because television, obviously, is a visual medium
and visual media only allow for certain things
to be discussed as various visual material.
And so some of these topics are, you know,
not always easy to bring (audio cuts out)
sometimes it is because it is located in areas
where television crews really can't get to.
Sometimes it is because the subject material
really is too hard to bring
in a visual TV kind of setting.
And so the book is pretty much
a synopsis of various things like that.
It's going into depth more about some of the topics
discovered or talked about on the series.
It is a companion volume pretty much for everything else.
And it also goes into some material which really
I feel is the best evidence.
Like where should be focusing on specifically.
Because we've done about 40 hours of television
with Ancient Aliens and to some extent
it's a very flat medium in the sense that each aspect
is given the same weight.
But really some aspects, some bits of evidence
are more important than others.
And so I wanna kind of like bring that out more
into the book as well, that there are certain things
where we should really be trying to focus on.
And also I think what I'm actually being
able to do in the book as well is give a reason
as to why we are in the situation where we're in,
in the sense that it's, you know the title of the book
is called The Ancient Alien Question
rather than the ancient alien answer.
Because we are still questioning, we still have questions
and science really needs to engage
in trying to come up with some of the answers
because some of the best evidence, some of the material
we're working with really
has reached, I would say possibility end date
of really going further with just the help of amateurs
or interested parties.
There really needs to be sometimes extraordinarily detailed
DNA analysis going on with certain tribes for example
in China.
And that kind of DNA evidence requires top laboratories
and so that is kind of like the situation we are in.
And it's also what I want to point out to people
as to why some of the skeptics quite often say,
oh well there is really no proof of this.
Well there is a reason why there's no proof of this.
And kind of you know those reasons I said that
in the book as well.
Yeah and very, very good point that you make,
you can't have evidence for it if the scientific community
will not fully participate in the process.
You can have perhaps other kinds of evidence.
And you certainly have spent a tremendous amount of time
detailing the evidence that does exist to this point
and let's launch into some of it.
You bring up quite a few topics,
everything from crystal skulls, and I want you to talk
a little bit about evidence in China that you just mentioned
you alluded to a second ago.
Let's start hop through a few of these hot topics.
Okay, well the evidence of China obviously
is interesting because there there is a tribe
which in 1962 was identified as being
of extraordinary interest.
Because what had happened was that
bodies had been buried inside a cave
and alongside these bodies were disks
which contained inscriptions.
And in 1962 a Japanese professor who was working in China
was able to decipher these inscriptions.
And his understanding was that these inscriptions
had to do with basically identifying the people
who were buried there.
And they said that these people who were descendants
of pretty much an intermarriage between
extraterrestrials who had crash landed on this planet
a few thousand years before and that had intermarried
with natives.
And the end result was a tribe
of wolfish like creatures,
very round thick skull, inset eyes, there's a photograph
of them in the book.
Pretty much these descendants are continued to live
pretty much until the middle of the 20th century.
Now in 1997, China decided that it's one billion people,
or thereabouts needed to have
pretty much a census, they wanted to identify
who was living where and how they related to each other.
And at that moment in time they seemed
to have rediscovered this tribe
because they gave very bizarre descriptions
to some of the people they were encountering.
And it caused some consternation in China as well
because how did these people come to look like this?
And so the Chinese authorities said, well you know,
these people might have been the result of lead poisoning,
some kind of genetic mutation occurred as a result of this.
And other scientists were basically saying,
well that's impossible, lead poisoning kills,
it doesn't cause genetic mutations.
So from what we understand today,
the Chinese government had left it at this situation
whereby there is some dispute as to how these tribes
came to look the way they did.
But at this moment in time, really if you bring in
the archaeological and the legendary evidence
there is an explanation for this.
But to really identify more China needs to open itself more
and also science as a whole needs to open itself more
to finding out whether or not these
beings are indeed of an extraterrestrial intermarriage
as the disks describe, you know, the disks which
have been found with some of these tribes ancestors.
Now crystal skulls obviously is another candidate.
The methodology in making them
means that if we were to do it without any form
of higher technology it would take about 70 years
day-in, day-out of constant working
to create something like the Mitchell-Hedges skull.
And the tiniest of mistakes would
actually destroy the skull.
Because when you look at some of the skulls
like Mitchell-Hedges one, Max, Compassion
is a more recent one which has been discovered,
all of these skulls are carved against the grain.
And you know, just try to cut your,
just try to cut a piece of steak against the grain,
so to speak, and you'll find how much harder it is,
and the same obviously is the case
but 10 fold for working with crystal.
Things like the Mitchell-Hedges skull has a detachable jaw,
which is made from the same quartz crystal as the head.
Basically extraordinarily difficult to do this.
At the same time there are reports that these skulls
allow some kind of communication with an intelligence
which is other-worldly.
And so when you begin to map all of these things,
you really begun to get away from what people
like Jane Walsh from the Smithsonian say,
which is that these skulls have been made
at the end of the 19th century in a village in Germany.
And so really what I'm pointing out in the book
is where they likely came from, which is Central America.
They were probably part of a treasure
which belonged to the Mayans, which was secreted away
when the Spanish conquistadors came.
When it was secreted away, it was protected
by descendants of the Mayan.
And it is my belief and there is evidence for this,
which is too long to go into at this moment in time,
but which is in the book, that Mitchell-Hedges was actually
shown part of this treasure.
Other ancient skulls like Max also probably
came from this or different treasure troves.
And it is also quite apparent that the Mayans used this
to actually allow communication with their gods, who they,
at one point said, had literally walked amongst them.
Other evidence includes the presence of
anomalous radioactive patches in parts of India.
And it is interesting that there is legendary evidence
that the Mahabharata, a tremendous battle which was fought
in the skies between the gods of ancient India
happened there.
Mohenjo Daro and Harappa are two places.
back then part of the Indus Valley Civilization,
roughly 3500 BC.
And when you see there, you literally find people
hand-in-hand, lying in the middle of the street.
Something happened extraordinary quickly.
Now this could have been a volcanic eruption,
something else could have happened.
But there is, at this moment in time,
clearly a picture evolving
that something happened very quickly, very suddenly.
And if Mohenjo Daro or Harappa doesn't to now
to be related to radioactivity, the only thing
what we really think at this moment in time
is that all of these things therefore seem to have happened
even further back in time.
But again, when you're talking about radioactivity
you are required to really get the help
of professional scientists involved
and when it comes to radioactive or testing radioactivity
in Harappa or in Mohenjo Daro,
basically the scientists will say that they know
that our ancestors were not part of a radioactive
nuclear war and that gods don't exists.
So it's stuck, you don't go further than that.
So you need to have a willingness.
And this is pretty much again, as I hinted at before
where we are so often.
An awful lot of the best evidence really needs
to have the active participation of either governments
and or scientists and logically
or open attitude of the scientific community
for the evidence to really turn to proof.
Yes and also more respect for the people
such as the indigenous elders and those who are sensitive,
their seers, they understand and can sense energies
and read patterns from the past.
It really seems to me to be a bringing together of the two.
And in fact I was at the 11-11-11 event in Los Angeles
recently and there was someone there
from the Smithsonian, a scientist, a woman.
And interestingly she said, look I'm not representing
the Smithsonian, I'm just a woman who wants to do something
good in the world.
And science has to, essentially, stop the arrogance
in assuming it's the only path to the answers,
we have to begin merging knowledge with wisdom.
And I thought, I mean she had
not a standing ovation but a nice round of applause
because everybody there appreciated the fact
that we do have to begin marrying the two.
And on an energetic level actually, a personal comment,
I had the opportunity to sit with Max,
a number of years ago, the skull Max
for about 15 or 20 minutes by myself.
And just explore and feel the energies in it
and it certainly was not inert by any means.
There was a great amount of energy
which stimulated certain, you know,
interesting thoughts, visions, whatever you wanna call it
in the people that were sitting with it
at that particular time, as we spoke
about it individually later.
So there was something going on there.
It was projecting some kind of information,
I can say from a personal level,
that was my experience anyway.
One other thing too, you just, go ahead please.
Well I mean Max is very interesting skull
and he made the cover of my book.
And there's obviously reason why he did so.
But just in Marshal this year in New Mexico,
we spent two days together with Max specifically,
you know, and Joanne, the keeper, protector of Max.
And what was interesting was that because throughout the day
we were pretty much there talking to Joanne,
and people came in like you for, you know,
20, 30 hour sessions.
And these people afterwards, you know, just turned around,
chatted a bit, but none of them really made contact
with other people who had gone in
simply because they weren't there to make it
into a gathering, but pretty much just to experience,
have one-on-one time with Max.
And the interesting aspect was this
that everybody who said that Max spoke to them
came away with the same information.
And this wasn't like oh you should love your husband
or your wife or your kids are great
or everything is going to be fine,
this was very specific information.
Quite often from a channel nature in the sense
of like the state of the world, the times we live in,
but also of a kind that really meant that it
wasn't a simple as saying, oh everything will be fine,
the world will be a better place.
None of those things were happening.
And so it kind of was testimony
if there was a scientist sitting there,
you could just kinda like see that all of these people
clearly, independently have picked something up from Max,
which was of great interest to them and that Max
really was communicating between each of these individuals.
And I think that is an interesting aspect that you know
that there are these intelligences out there where you can
make contact to and definitely Max
and some of the other crystal skulls are
you know, enablers of getting a different perspective.
I think this is something which is so apparent,
that is that we are so self-absorbed as as society
with our own problems that we sometimes don't
see a way out or that we don't see different perspective.
And to get this perspective from somebody else,
from a non-human intelligence, it's almost like going
to a psychiatrist and laying on the bench and saying,
oh well, you know, you have this problem
but in the larger universal scheme of things,
it's not that big of a deal or here's a way
of transforming this.
And I think if we are beginning to use indigenous
information and if we are beginning to use these approaches
of nonhuman intelligences, I think actually as a society,
we will become more open and also some of the problems
which we are facing will be placed in a better perspective
than some of them which are, you know,
sometimes blown out of complete proportion
and then disappear from the scientific radar
five years afterwards, after they have been
made world famous for whatever they were.
Like you know in the 1970s we turned to a last ice age,
global warming, kind of like is it something which is really
just effecting planet Earth, and if that is the case,
what are we doing with things like the fact that
other planets in our solar system are
subjected to global warming as well?
All of those things really are things whereby there's
a mass panic quite often created
and we bend ourselves over backwards
in trying to come up with solutions.
And sometimes, you know, I think that there
is an exaggeration because we are so panic stricken.
And if we do have that outside perspective, we will
get a better view as to where we should focus attention on
and where we can be more calm about our approach
in solving some of these problems.
I agree, and I wanna go back to something
you said just a little bit ago, just before touching
on the crystal skulls and that had to do
with this story in China
and the people wanting to understand,
you know, the origins of themselves.
And this connection again back to the star people
as the Mayans called them.
I interviewed Raymond Tarpey recently,
who had done quite a bit of research
into ancient Chinese and ancient Japanese history.
And he stumbled upon something that required
his going beyond academia, and that was that there
was this direct connection through certain words
and images that were coming up in his research
between the ancient Chinese and the ancient Mayans.
And through this, he started going into the Edgar Cayce
readings for example, who was able to validate
what had happened with the people
and also with the interaction with the extraterrestrial
civilizations, and then this goes into Tibet,
back to the crystal skulls, so there's a little circle here.
Where after
speaking with a Mayan elder
at the 11-11-11 event, he was telling me
that the Tibetans had given him the crystal skull
and they spoke of a time when those 13 skulls
were delivered, when 13 of them were delivered
to the high mountains of Tibet, to these individuals
and had been kept since.
And it was told at the time that these are to be distributed
appropriately with discernment among other peoples
of the world.
And they describe the people who had dropped them off
as coming in a space craft and being very short
and having blueish, grey kind of skin
and that they actually didn't leave.
They had stayed among the population in Tibet
for, until their death actually.
And so the legend of those people, or the mythology,
or the historical documentation of them has been passed down
through the monks.
And so that is how the skulls was passed on to the Maya.
In that case.
Well.
Mhmm?
Well definitely when you look at some of how
these skulls came about, you know, in the West,
there's definitely a very interesting connection there.
Mitchell-Hedges , in the book I explain how Mitchell-Hedges
gets the skull and pretty much, he is a story
of a wise man who goes to the Mayans
and the Mayans say, you know, you have done so much
for us, take this skull with you.
And for a period of time he had no idea what to do with it
and it's really almost after his death
that Anna Mitchell-Hedges begins to do these things
with the skull.
Max's story's pretty similar as well.
Max was used by a Red Hat Lama in Houston,
living there, you know, and gave it to Joanne
and pretty much it was Max who tells Joanne
to take him out into the big world.
The story of Nick Nocerino I think is typical
of these stories, which is that he was traveling around
in the 1950s in the Mayan heartland
and on a number of occasions he was given crystal skulls.
He refused in most instances because he was convinced
that the locals needed to use these skulls
for their own benefit.
But there were occasions, obviously one occasion
where he felt that yes, he should bring this skull
to the Western world.
And so you see from the 1950s onwards
very much that people, Westerners who went to the Mayan
heartlands came away with some these crystal skulls,
pretty much as a means of
opening the Western mindset to this kind of thinking.
And so yeah the Tibetan connection is something which
definitely is something which, you know, has come across,
as I said Max has a Tibetan connection.
And, you know, at this moment in time I think we are
not in a complete position to get the total picture
as to where they are coming from.
But definitely, you know, it is clear that from the 1950s
onwards these skulls were sent out, so to speak,
from the Mayan heartlands to the western nations
of this planet to say, look this is what we have.
And I think it is interesting that, you know,
in the run up to 2012, which is all about calendar systems
of the Mayans, that skulls have taken such a prominence.
Because in the early 1990s, there was hardly any book
written about the Mayans and their religion
and their mythology, and since the 1990s,
so much has become, you know, about the Mayans
that they pretty much have overtaken I think ancient Egypt.
And that is definitely a trend which is of interest
and the rise of public (audio cuts out)
of the crystal skulls definitely has to do with them.
And again, it was Indiana Jones and the Kingdom
of the Crystal Skulls, which was
of primary importance in bringing about Ancient Aliens.
So there you are.
Yeah, and it served its purpose well.
Even if it had a bit of a freight scenario at the end of it,
it did still serve its purpose
to develop the curiosity about it.
And certainly in the Mayan story you can't forget
Jose Arguelles, I think he had a good amount to do
also with bringing this forward and the knowledge
of the calendar and he felt it was his life's purpose
from the age of 14, until his death at what,
he was 71 or 72 last year when he died?
He was over 70.
To bring this knowledge forward to this time
and he succeeded well.
And I spoke with him about some
interesting anomalies as well.
And I find it fascinating that people like yourself,
everyone, Raymond Tarpey, Jose, and many, many others,
Eric von Daniken and certainly playing his part
for decades now, have,
the information is starting to intersect
and as it's coming out people are talking to each other
and finding that there are these incredible
connecting points between these stories.
Just like I said with the Tibetans and with Humbatz Men
of the Mayans and the crystal skull
coming from Tibet to the Mayan.
Let's talk about a couple of the other things
because as we're on this subject of crystal skulls
and we spoke about the tiny people,
we can speak about that in reverse, there's certainly
been finding of, all over the planet as a matter of fact,
of anomalous anatomical structures, including giants.
And I had the pleasure,
I hadn't expected this, recently while in Vienna
of holding the occipital bone of a human,
what appeared to be a human being
according to anatomists in Austria
of a person who was between 21 and 23 feet tall.
And of course this is kind of life altering.
You can read about it, but when you're seeing the evidence
for it, it kind of grounds it in there.
And you've done some research on this subject as well.
Can you speak a bit to the whole notion of giants
walking the planet as well?
Yes definitely, I mean the idea of the giants
really goes back I think to the biblical times.
The story of Genesis 6 which the watchers
is the most telling example of this.
It is, you know, it is written down in the Bible
how gigantic creatures came to planet of Earth,
saw the female women, sorry, saw the female humans,
decided to mate with them and offspring which is created
is something which they go about it in extraordinary detail.
It is about how these women die in child birth
or that cesarean emergency sections
have to be done on them.
Because what happens is that the skulls of these beings,
the children, are too big to fit through the pelvic
opening for, you know, giving normal childbirth.
And so what is happening there is really something
which is very graphic and doesn't have any morality lesson
into it whatsoever.
I quite often like this about the Bible which is that
it is really a collection of stories of anomalous events
which happened to the Jewish people.
And I think in origin they just wanted
to have a collection of this.
It's only later that all of a sudden they feel that all
of this has to have some morality.
And so begin in search of these things and say,
oh well you know this is the morality of this,
this is the morality of that.
But I think in origin the story of the watchers,
of these giant beings descending from heaven
and mating with humans, I think is just that,
it is there is no morality to it,
it is just a story which was recorded.
And yes, you know, giants have been
recorded everywhere.
Lovelock, Nevada is one place where some
of these bones have survived.
And the interesting thing is that this is anomalous evidence
and originally the museums there in Lovelock
had 15, and one of them in Reno had 15 skulls
which were larger.
At this moment in time between three and five survive
and 10 have simply disappeared.
And it is incredible that, you know,
some of the best evidence that we were not alone,
that there is weird things happening
between heaven and earth.
Science doesn't seem to have any respect for these things,
they try to hope that over time people will forget about it.
And quite often the evidence disappears away
from the archaeological records.
And I think that is not a coincidence.
I think actually that this is to some extent,
you know, I wouldn't say a conspiracy,
but definitely, you know, that they
invite these things to disappear over time,
that they invite some of these things.
They're always in museums where they're really hard
to access or they're in parts of museums
where, oh we don't know whether we can open it up
for you, those kinds of things.
But if you wanna see, you know, the gold mask
of Tutankhamun, that's 24/7 available in a museum,
so to speak anywhere in the world.
So there is this thing and I think we need
to really start looking into that,
we need to start looking into these skulls,
we need to start doing the analyses.
And again, this does involve the active cooperation
of scientists or incredible amount of money
so that private people, you know, can do, can just
take these skulls to laboratories and have them tested.
But as soon as a skull pretty much sits
within a museum environment it's pretty much
off hands, nobody can touch it,
you know, unless you are a scientist.
So there are problems related to how to figure out
how to really progress these issues.
And to some extent, the skeptics are saying,
well you know, this never progresses anywhere.
Well there is again, there is a reason for this
because it needs the active cooperation.
And, you know, to some extent, I mean I don't know
who the woman was from the Smithsonian
at the crystal skull conference, but I--
I didn't know here name, she was just
an attendee.
But, you know, I have seen how three years ago now,
almost four years ago, the crystal skull was tested
at the Smithsonian, that this basically everything
that the two, three hours when the skull was there
was tested and there definitely was no sense of openness
at all from the Smithsonian scientists in this testing.
In fact, you know, there is
an agenda there, to basically say,
this is not real, there is a problem here.
And I think this is a problem with science as a whole,
I think there is so much material
which they try to explain away rather than just explain.
And I think this is something which needs to change,
hopefully in the near future.
Yes and there was the famous incident
at the turn of the last century,
what 1910, 1909,
where that treasure trove in the Grand Canyon
of Egyptian artifacts was discovered.
And it was reported in the Phoenix Newspaper in some detail.
And of course the story disappeared, though you can still
find it, it's been put up on the net,
you can find the archived story.
But the Smithsonian allegedly came in
and spirited away all of the artifacts
and then killed the story.
And then the question becomes, how did ancient artifacts
from Egypt end up in a very, very remote and inaccessible
place in the Grand Canyon.
Which if you were looking at it logically,
now in my form in logic and perhaps yours,
the only way that can likely happen is if there
was some kind of flying devices.
There were flying devices and it could simply be
flown in to the location, that would make perfect sense.
And there seems to be enough evidence there have
been flying machines around for a good long while,
prior to recent history.
Well what was happening there, I don't think
that there's necessarily need for flying machines there,
but the Grand Canyon is a very interesting site.
It is a point of creation for the Hopi.
There are still tribes which appear to,
you know, kind of like go there on a pilgrimage route
every year, it is one of those things like
Santiago Compostela for Christians.
Going to this place of creation within the Grand Canyon
of the Hopi people, it is something which they feel
they have to do.
It is related with the creation of this world
that in the book I go about how the Hopi
really have extraordinary creation mythology.
Which goes back to the Ant People, people who
really sheltered them from storms,
from world devastations, from various things like that.
And it is clear that these Ant People are,
you know, to a nonhuman kind of alien like intelligence.
And so to have that location there in the Grand Canyon,
and then to find that there are potentially Egyptian
artifacts secreted away in the immediate surroundings there
is something which I think is of extreme interest.
And yes, you know, the Smithsonian goes in there,
apparently does some things and nothing is every seen
from it again.
I've been contacted after I wrote a story about that
for my website that there are people
apparently there who still know the location of this site
and they basically said that they are never going
to tell this and that it is pretty much
only going to go through family lines.
Because they really feel that if they were to do it
differently, the way the Western scientific establishment
works is that they would either rip it apart,
misinterpret it, or pretty much,
you know, secrete it away somewhere,
never to be seen from again.
And specially what they don't want to see happen
to this site, but I'm pretty sure there are hundreds
of sites elsewhere in the world as well,
is that people don't want to see something
which is very spiritual basically just reduced to
a story about dead people and things which have been found.
And that the absolute importance of why
that place was there, you know, is,
they wanna have a part of that as well.
And if it is indeed Egyptians who came there,
then it is simply the case that in this present scientific
climate this isn't going to be labeled the most
important scientific discovery ever,
but that it is something which is going to be
disputed and explained away by scientists.
Yes and I think I might
have an idea of who you're speaking of,
although I cannot remember his name,
but there is a man that I met a number of years ago.
I'm terrible with names.
Who at an event where he was showing his information
and was speaking about this event as well,
which I had already been aware of, and in addition to that
had a little slideshow for a small group of people
that was showing some of his findings,
including the giants in the southwest.
And there were these redheads that are between
nine and 15 feet tall that there buried into these
clay cylinders in the ground and they still had hair
and skin on them and even some bits of
tattered fabric on their bodies.
Again, flaming red hair,
something totally anomalous to this region.
People averaging around 11, 12 feet tall.
But it turned out I couldn't speak to him,
his life had been threatened and he considered it
for a moment under anonymous conditions
but it's just too dangerous
for people who actually do have this kind of knowledge
to come forward.
Bad things seem to follow them, you know.
Well, I mean definitely when we are talking about,
you know, some of the people involved with these things,
an awful lot of them are come across these things by chance.
And I always think of the story of
Russel burrows and the Burrows cave
in Illinois.
And basically what you have there is the story of a man
who's a caver, who stumbles upon a cave,
finds that there are pretty much people
inside there with gold and other artifacts.
And to cut a long story short, what it appears
is that there was this Ptolemaic expedition
which was launched from
western Europe by Egypt area, Mediterranean area,
and across the Atlantic to a place where I believe
in 2000 BC there was actually an active communication.
I believe that an awful lot of the copper
which was used in bronze age Europe actually came
from along the North Americas,
something which Gavin Menzies in his book
The Lost Civilization of the Atlantis,
which is currently, you know, a bestseller
in both the UK and the US, is working on.
And pretty much what Russell Burroughs comes up with
is this cave and he had no idea what to do with it.
He contacted the amateurs because he felt that they
were somehow able to help him.
He got frustrated because he believed
that these people were able to help him more,
that he, you know, was hoping
that they really could practically do.
And at the end it turned out to be a completely failure
in the sense that there is actually a possibility
that he just said, okay I've spent five to 10 years
of my life trying to convince the world that what I found
is of interest, I have taken artifacts out.
Nobody seems to believe me
and some of the people involved are trying
to make a quick buck for themselves.
And when you hear this story and it's, you know,
it's more of a pattern rather than a standalone story,
I can complete relate to people who say,
however much important it is what I have found,
I'm only gonna tell my son or my daughter or my nephew
or very few people in my family.
And that once the attitude of society, of science
has changed, then it is up to them
to kind of like come forward and put these stories out
into the big wide world.
Because at this moment in time,
pretty much all we're going to do
is we're going to become the subject of controversy,
and what we have found is not going to matter at all.
And, you know, the messenger is gonna get shot.
And it is quite often what we do,
we love to shoot messengers.
Absolutely and there's another player here
that I think is doing really wonderful work, Klaus Dona
in Austria by bringing together the collections
of these ancient artifacts, these anomalous artifacts.
And he's not drawing conclusions, he's saying,
look at this for yourself, you connect with,
you do the research with and you decide what the place
of these historically and scientifically may be.
But he's done an extraordinary job in the past
and is in the process of doing so again,
of bringing a lot of these ancient artifacts,
skull samples, the elongated skulls and other things
together, including ancient artwork
where they have no idea what the language is,
they don't know the derivation of the substances
they're made out of, they glow from the inside
and all of this.
So the evidence is being brought together.
And I think maybe the dangerous part
is laying claim to exactly who done it so to speak.
Absolutely, I mean I have never actually with Klaus
because of the last few years I have been
living more in than the US than in Europe,
but I am fortunate that next September in 2012,
Klaus and I will both be speaking
at the Bosnian Pyramid Conference in Sarajevo.
So it will be my first time that I will be able
to meet Klaus and speak to him
and get to, you know, a more familiar territory
with what he's actually been doing.
But yes, you know, I think that the good thing
that is that so much of this material
quite often when somebody finds something,
people find that there is this immediate rush to judgement
of like, we need to be able to find out everything
about this object, we need to be able to say
where it came from, we need to add something to this.
And I quite often think like hold on let's just settle down.
You know, okay we have found an anomalous skull,
okay, it's an anomaly, that's good enough,
let's take it one step at a time.
We do not have to have these rush to judgment things.
People always wanna have the total truth.
And this is the case with the Bosnian Pyramids in Sarajevo.
They have been identified for like three minutes
and they wanted to know, which civilization had built them,
how old they were, and it's like, okay hold on,
this might take five, 10, 15 years
before these answers come.
Let's just take it one step at a time.
And I think that is also something which needs to change,
you know, this attitude to have complete and final answers.
In the book I actually say that of all the ancient alien
theories out there, most of them are wrong
because they are too many theories, they are,
you know, we are not at that moment in stage
right now to say where
the nonhuman intelligences who contacted Earth
came from, the only thing which we can say right now
is that the overwhelming evidence is that they were here,
that they taught us some of the sciences.
But all the other details as to, you know,
how many civilizations they contacted,
is Viracocha the same as Quetzalcoatl,
all of these things we simply do not know
at this moment in time.
And part of the reasons why we don't have the answers
right now is pretty much because
there is this constant rush to judgment,
and then we are confronted with a big theory,
and then we realize that the theory has holes in it
and then we have to go back to basics
and see where we have to build the story up from
onwards once again.
And it is, you know, detrimental to really
and making any real progress.
We should take it one step at a time.
And so people like Klaus who just say,
here's the basic things, and don't do rush to judgements.
I think that is the right approach to take.
Otherwise you just get immediate push back
from the scientific community which starts blowing holes
in everything immediately.
So it starts creating and casting doubt
where there doesn't even need to be doubt at that time.
Absolutely.
You know, take it one step at a time
and you will be on firmer ground,
you will be making it far more solid.
And I quite often think that conservative attitude
is something good as well.
You know, I always say, okay so we have found these
gigantic, I'll keep using the example
of the Bosnian Pyramids, we have found some of the most
amazing, you know, structures in planet Earth,
that's good enough. (laughing)
You know, which civilization built them
or when precisely they were built,
does it really matter that much?
It doesn't I think, you know, let's focus on the fact
that there are these gigantic pyramids.
And then once we are, you know,
having done more archaeological excavations into them
and when we begin to find out that they actually were
placed in a location
which is part of a, not a lost civilization,
but a largely obscured civilization,
a civilization where very few people are aware of
called Old Europe.
This is kind of like, you know, something which is great.
And so rather than say okay these pyramids
are tens of thousands of years old,
no, let's just, you know, keep it conservative
and you will not get this immediately backlash
from the scientific community.
You know, but also I think the scientific community
needs to realize that this is not always
them who do the big discoveries.
People out there in the field can make discoveries as well.
And the scientific community very much has this attitude
that only they seem to be able to
be able to make archaeological discoveries.
And that is simply not the case.
So it is both sides who really have to work with each other
and realize that they are not both side,
but that everything is about, you know,
expanding our views and trying to coming up with answers
as to where we came from, why we're here,
and all of those other big questions.
And if you don't mind going in your own book,
you have so much evidence, people need to read the book
to begin kind of looking through the variety of evidence
you have of some of the discovered artifacts
and such to this point.
But I'll just can on a couple of them for brevity's sake.
And I've always been fascinated with the notion of lifespans
in ancient times, the book of Kings,
also some of the biblical references to age,
the ages of the people in the time.
Can you talk to this for just a moment?
Absolutely.
Everybody's aware with the fact that Methuselah,
Adam, and all of these other biblical patriarchs
lived for almost a thousand years.
Now I think to some extent there might have been
material in there which is of a astronomical
or an astrological origin, and that basically people
were putting specific dates in there.
But when you start looking into other evidence,
you realize that certain things are,
you know, definitely different.
And specifically what I always go to is
Manetho's list of dynasties.
It's the story about ancient Egypt, it's the fact
that he writes that before dynastic rule began in Egypt,
roughly 3000 BC, that before there were followers of Horace
and before that the gods who lived on this planet itself.
And they are confronted with rules of gods,
of, you know, thousands of years old.
And this thousands of years is definitely something
which you're seeing with the early civilizations.
Again, there is a traditional explanation which says
that all of this has to do with lunar years.
Now that would mean, it's great you know,
if you apply that then the likes of Adam,
rather than living a thousand years,
would have lived 70, 80 years which seems reasonable enough.
But then you need to start looking at where they logically
gave birth, at what age they became a father or to them.
And at that point in time, you're finding that they
have children at the age of five.
So that's a big young.
And so at the very earliest thing which we could say
was that our ancestors seemed to have been extraordinarily
sexually premature at the age of five to have, you know,
be able to give birth to children.
And the Egyptians were meticulous record keepers.
We have to honor and respect that.
Absolutely and, you know, that is
why ancient Egypt was the go-to.
The Greeks, when they needed to know something,
they went to Egypt and the Egyptians were telling them
the answers to this.
So much has lost.
There was allegedly a book which says the history of mankind
for the past 100,000 years,
it's known that this was one of the books which was actually
burned during the burning of the Library of Alexandria.
So some information has been lost,
has been destroyed, that it is simply extraordinary.
The Mayans, we have so little information about the Mayans
because the Spanish conquistadors burnt all
of their information.
We are slowly recovering from that,
but it's really only through archaeological material
that we can reconstruct the history of the Mayans
because the Mayans did commit an awful lot of things
to books, which were afterwards simply lost.
You know, the conquistadors said that all of this
information was from the devil
and therefore had to be destroyed.
And this is time and time again what you see,
that our ancient history has been continuously destroyed
because so much book burning has happened.
It was in Medieval times, it was in Alexandria
in the fourth century AD, but also it happened in China.
It is not just simply the bailiwick of our,
you know, Western civilization, it's also something
which the Chinese did or a Chinese emperor
in the third century AD, decided that he was
going to be seen as the origin of all of Chinese culture.
And guess what, you know, traditional science which says
that they have to rely on written evidence only,
but I'd have thought are going to say,
well that is indeed the starting date of history.
Because they are unwilling to look at the other
kind of material which is folkloric, mythological,
anthropological evidence.
And I think in all those cases where we are confronted
with information that massive book burnings
or information burnings or information destruction
happened, that we need to allow the mythological
and legendary information to come into
the pool of evidence as well because it is
clear that history was rewritten for a purpose.
But again, historians don't really want to
or seem to want to do that pretty much
because there is this drive of us,
not just from a historical point of view but I think
as a completely society, that we want to see ourselves
as the sum of everything.
And that is simply not the case, we are an intelligent,
we're an intelligent species but we are also
at an intelligent moment in our history.
But I don't think there's the first time that we
have been this intelligent.
I think, you know, there have been times in the past
when pockets of civilization, which is just
as interesting today.
Absolutely and you speak about this
in your book, you're putting forth that
this information, there's evidence,
empirical evidence anyway, that this information,
these ages of intelligence, the incredible technology
that's been available in the past
was seeded by another off-planet culture.
And whether it came from their being physically present
or from the elder chiefs being able to communicate
on some other level with them, somehow society
was inculcated with this knowledge throughout history
at various pockets all over the world
and throughout history we have had access to this,
the information of advanced civilizations
to bring our own levels of intelligence and knowledge
and scientific discovery up.
Absolutely.
What I see in the
evidence of whether or not we were alone
is very different from what I think the standard view is.
The standard view is pretty much that ET came
and to some extent seems to have colonized
or even created mankind as some kind of slave species.
Zecharia Sitchin's theories come to mind there most often.
But all the evidence from the various civilizations
really points out that there was this beautiful harmony,
this beautiful symbiosis between us
and the other-worldly intelligences.
That whenever we had a question,
we could go to these intelligences
and they would help us find answers
or at least steer us in the right direction.
And that is something which I think is
of extraordinary importance.
And as you say, you know, in the book
what I specifically want to do is I want to take this
ancient alien material out from the rather
narrow confines of physical contact.
Do I believe that there was physical contact
in the past with the nonhuman intelligences?
Yes because
it is not simply a question of belief,
but it is because our ancestors said as such.
That there was a time when there were nonhuman intelligences
physically present on planet Earth
living next to or with some of our ancestors.
At some moment in times it seems these creatures
specifically came here, that they knew we were here,
that they wanted to establish contact.
At other moment in time it also seems that they
simply crash landed and they were stuck here
and that they couldn't return.
And the story of the Dropper in India, I'm sorry in China
is definitely an example of this.
But I also think that there is a pool of evidence
which suggests that throughout time,
throughout so many civilizations there was non-physical
contact with these nonhuman intelligences.
And I go into the book into some detail as to
how the likes of Terence McKenna and their experiences
of meeting these nonhuman intelligences
on different planes of existence.
Which happened in the 1970s, you know, '80s and '90s,
which is happening to some extent to people
probably right now as we speak.
That this is, sorry that this is evidence
of contact with aliens,
which is just as good and just as solid
as the physical contact which some of our ancestors had.
And the reason why it is just as solid
is because in the likes of Terence McKenna
what we see is that these eight beings
gave, in this instance Terence,
very important information.
In his case to do with the nature of time.
In the case of Michael Talbot who wrote
The Holographic Universe into how the universe
was basically a hologram.
And so what we're seeing is that science
is really becoming enriched from contact
with these nonhuman intelligences.
And so whereas you have on the one hand the crystal skulls
who are very much more a spiritual guide I would say,
you also find that, well first of all you can
use the crystal skulls for more of what I would say
scientific endeavors, but also that the nonhuman
intelligences are there to give us scientific information.
And that I think is a very clear indicator of two things.
One of them that they are, you know, obviously there,
that they exist, that they are intelligent
because they gave us all of this information,
but also that they are willing to work with us,
that they see this relationship between us and them
as a symbiosis for the betterment of mankind.
Yes and also it doesn't,
it's not necessarily restricted to one or the other.
You go into Zecharia Sitchin's work to a great degree
in the book, and again I encourage people
to pick up the book and start reviewing this for themselves,
evaluate for yourself on that.
But also it's certainly conceivable that we've had this,
these races that have been here
to essentially help inform us and help guide
where guidance has been requested all along.
It's also certainly possible that we've had some exploited
and interfering species that have shown up too.
Not a lot different than the human species in that respect.
So I say I think we need to really question,
certainly question all of it and you've done
a beautiful job of research in that.
Just on the last note you were talking about,
I've had some experiences on a personal level.
Years ago I was looking at doing a PBS series
on this subject.
I was in the PBS system and had a show
nationally at that time and so I had access.
And part of my research began with Steven Greer.
And I went out in the field with Steven Greer
and did a little bit, like he has at night,
you do a little remote viewing beforehand
and would be shown things and you speak up
in the darkness of the night.
And one of the things I found interesting was that
I was seeing this one particular thing three nights in a row
an elliptical, blue, semi-transparent spacecraft
that was sitting on a flat rock at the edge of some crags.
We hadn't been out to the crags yet.
But nothing came of it, I thought well that was bogus
and I was a little embarrassed, I though thank god it's dark
and no one can see who said it.
And then the final day, someone comes in excitedly
with photographs.
The day before we had actually done an outing to the crags.
And exactly as I had been shown repeatedly
the first three nights of the week out there
was this semi-transparent, elliptical, blue spacecraft
sitting on a flat rock right at the edge of the crags.
They were just taking pictures of the rocks
and it showed up on digital film,
where you couldn't see it with your eye.
And I notice this repeated that they'd say,
well, you know, I wish we could see a craft overhead,
but just slightly phased off they were
out in the field behind us.
Up at James Gilliland's place, there are beings,
tall purple beings walking amongst us.
I happened to mention it to James and he said,
oh yeah, another lady was talking about them too.
Because they brought a certain kind of feeling to the group
that allowed you to absorb information more quickly.
And I just see them out of the corner of my eye
walking by.
And I found it just so interesting that as we
talk about the quantum void versus the quantum plenum,
when we were looking at this other worldly issue,
for me anyway and a lot of other people,
it's around, it's there all the time in the phased off.
And that part people can very easily access
and begin downloading information from.
That's not even counting that they're dimensional,
physical ETs that may have been here.
Abslutely, I think, you know, the quest
of contact with alien intelligences,
of guided us, of bring about certain things
is something which is ongoing.
And to a large extent the ancient alien question
is, you know, part and parcel of a larger question,
which is the alien question.
But what I hoped to do in the book as well
was to really say, okay some of the ways of studying
this material from the past we can do
through studying the present.
And I do actually hope that, you know,
one of the things is like that we look at UFO phenomenon
quite often through, okay we see things in the sky,
contact was made, close encounters of a third kind,
and the abduction experiences.
But there really isn't, you know, I think the final solution
has to be that we need to seek them out,
that we need to be able to make contact with them
on an almost like daily basis.
And that there are people working there and helping us
into making this contact happen on a daily basis.
And that I think is the final aim of this thing.
And I think then you're also getting away from
this yes or no answer.
A photograph will, you know,
the question is quite often for like real evidence
of something.
Well the photograph will only say, okay this is
something which we can't explain.
It'll never give a real answer, unless you know,
the spaceship had in giant letters, we are from Octurus
written on its alien bumper sticker.
So we need to come up with a different formula
whereby we can move this debate forward.
And what you're describing there is I think exactly
a way forward and over time this will become I think
more and more the standard way of validating
that indeed there are more intelligences around us
than we think there are.
Absolutely and Philip I know that you
have a bit of a sore throat today.
I wanted to talk to you and continue on because well
Eric von Daniken is not doing interviews right now,
you were the editor of his latest book, Odyssey of the Gods.
And I don't know how your throats holding out,
but maybe if we could catch you in a few weeks
after you're done with your move,
I would be happy to do that and pick up the conversation
so that you don't wear yourself out today.
I know you're really busy.
Absolutely.
By all accounts, Eric's book, I think this deserves
an entire show all by itself.
Let's absolutely go into the details of Eric's
Odyssey of the Gods in the near future.
Because I think what Eric has really been trying to do
with that book is show that there is far more depth
to ancient Greece than we know.
And it once again one of those eye-openers
as to how, what we think is something,
is actually something completely different.
Absolutely and he goes into a great description
in the book from Greek documents, Plato
into the nature of what Atlantis may have been like
among many, many other things, we speak of centaurs
and hybrid beings of all kinds in this book.
So I do, I agree with you, I think
it's worth a separate show.
So if I may invite you back in two or three weeks
after you're past your move, how's that sound?
Absolutely I think it's a lovely place to
say that Eric might be the ideal gift for Christmas.
Very good (laughing) okay.
Thank you so much for your time Philip.
I really appreciate it and find it fascinating
and anybody watching this right now
they can go to Amazon, right?
Amazon obviously.
My book is available pretty much everywhere
where books are sold, so Amazon, Barnes and Noble,
or the physical bookshops of Barnes and Noble
are all carrying this book.
The Ancient Alien Question.
And what's your website?
My website is philipcoppens.com which is
P-H-I-L-I-P-C-O double P-E-N-S.
And if you type my name into Facebook or Twitter
you will also come to me.
Very good, thank you so much for your time.
I hope your throat feels better and good luck
with your move this weekend.
And we'll talk in a couple weeks then.
Thank you.
Okay, bye-bye now.
Bye-bye.
(light music)
Again, Philip's book is title the Ancient Alien Question.
We'll be speaking again soon regarding the subject
of the Odyssey of the Gods by Eric von Daniken.
Meanwhile the subject of alien presence on Earth
is not going to go away until it's given a full
and honest investigation.
In the interim we're left to our own instincts
and what we personally resonate with to fill in the blanks.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.
(light music)
Please hang up and try again.